♪ Thank you for bein' a friend ♪
♪ Traveled down the road and back again ♪
♪ Your heart is true ♪
♪ You're a pal and a confidante ♪
♪ And if you threw a party ♪
♪ Invited everyone you knew ♪
♪ You would see the biggest gift
Would be from me ♪
♪ And the card attached would say ♪
♪ "Thank you for bein' a friend" ♪
(tranquil music playing)
Blanche Devereaux's
going on a diet.
Could you wait until tomorrow?
I've got some Sarah Lee stock
to unload.
Wait. Can I have those gummi bears?
Aren't they good?
I don't eat them.
Then why take them?
To play army.
And sometimes I like
to line them up
around my bed
and pretend I'm Gulliver.
Blanche, you put yourself
through hell every year.
Are you sure it's worth it?
Of course it is.
Every anniversary
since I was married,
I've slipped into my wedding dress
and had my picture taken.
George was proud of me
for staying svelte.
I'll fit into that dress this year
if it kills me.
It's not you I'm worried about.
The last time you went on a diet,
you turned into that guy
from Silence of the Lambs.
You did everything
but butter my face.
It's going to be different this time.
I'm on this drink-it-off diet.
You have two shakes
and a sensible meal.
You lose weight the fast, easy way.
I prefer the Italian diet.
You drink wine,
make a smart remark,
then get your jaw wired.
Dorothy, a man called for you
while you were out.
Finally. We can break out that bottle
of champagne we've been saving.
Ma.
Dorothy, we might
not get another chance.
Sure, we will.
We can serve it at the wake.
He's in Miami on business
and wants to see you.
John Noretti called.
I haven't heard from him
in almost 40 years.
I can't believe this.
Who's John Noretti?
He's a guy who humiliated me.
Could you narrow it
down a bit, Dorothy?
He's the guy who stood me up
for my senior prom.
Oh, Dorothy, I had no idea
you were stood up
for your prom.
Oh, that's awful.
I figured you didn't go,
but to be stood up...
John Noretti was one
of the toughest guys
in my high school.
He smoked, he drank,
he made those rude noises
under his armpit.
I was totally in love with him,
and when he asked me
to the senior prom,
I was thrilled.
When I came down the stairs
all dressed,
ma cried because
her little girl was grown up,
and she remarked that that night
would always be
the most memorable
and important night
the two of us ever shared.
Remember, Ma?
Vaguely.
But John never showed up.
I've never forgotten it,
but apparently he has,
or he wouldn't have had
the nerve to call here.
-You're not calling him, are you?
-Absolutely.
If John's in Miami, I want to see him.
That's not such a good idea.
Ma, don't you see?
I'm finally going to get my revenge.
He's going to see a beautiful,
vibrant woman
who's done something with her life.
Well, Dorothy,
I'd like to help, but...
I can't go out with him
on such short notice.
I meant done something
with her life standing up.
(Dorothy) I'm talking about me.
My revenge will be
to make John feel
as bad as he made me feel.
I want him to see me,
see my life,
so he'll know exactly what he missed.
She doesn't know
a whole lot about revenge.
Well, I'm ready for John.
I've waited a long time for this night.
I'm begging you.
Don't go out with him.
He'll hurt you again.
I'm not going out with him.
You said you'd make him suffer.
Don't you have to date a man
to do that?
Not this time.
No. I have my plan
all worked out step by step.
First, he'll comment
on how stunning I look,
then I'll say, "Oh, John,
did we have a date tonight?
I completely forgot."
As he crumbles,
I will show him the door.
What if he doesn't comment
on how stunning you look?
Then you'll bring it up.
Time for my shake.
Honey, how are you doing
with this diet?
Oh, no problem. Piece of cake.
Nice big piece
of chocolate cake.
Devil's food, smothered
in whipped cream
and coconut flakes and a lobster.
(Dorothy) Blanche.
Oh, I'm fine, I'm fine.
Ooh, a wonderful
strawberry shake.
Strawberry, mmm.
I bet that'd go great with a burger.
Ma, you're being a little
insensitive, aren't you?
A little. Who wants an eclair?
(doorbell rings)
Oh, God, that's John.
Oh, I just hope I can be mean enough.
Dorothy, do what you do to me
in the morning
when I take bacon off your plate.
Blanche,
I wanna tell you something.
I've never weighed
more than a hundred pounds
on any day of my adult life.
And because you're my friend
I want you to sit down,
and I'll share with you
that secret.
Uh-huh. Tell me, Sophia.
I was born that way.
I could eat anything
and never get fat.
Did anyone ever tell you
you look like George Kirby?
No, no. Wait. Wait.
It's time that John Noretti
learned a lesson.
I'm not that same little girl
whose head can be turned by a pair of
beautiful eyes and killer smile.
(doorbell rings)
Now.
Dorothy.
Dorothy, look at you.
You're as beautiful now
as you were then.
I love you.
(John) What?
I, uh...
I'd love you to meet my, uh,
friend, uh, Rose.
Hi, John Noretti.
Shall we go?
We've got reservations at 8:30.
Take me.
Out.
-Take me out for dinner.
-Sure.
Dorothy.
I thought you were going
to make him suffer.
I will. Tomorrow morning I'll tell him
he's the worst lover I've ever had.
Hope you like medieval food.
I do. I'm glad I didn't have it
for lunch.
Good evening, my lord.
Good evening, my lady.
I am Don.
I will be your fool
for the entire evening.
Would you like our specials?
We have pheasant and wild boar.
How is the pheasant?
Do you like chicken?
Yes.
It's chicken.
Bring us a couple of grogs
while we decide.
Diet grog if you have it.
♪ Just sit right back
And you'll hear a tale ♪
♪ A tale of a fateful trip ♪
♪ That started from this tropic port ♪
♪ Aboard this tiny ship ♪
It's so strange sitting here with you.
-You're so different.
-Why?
Well, I remember you as that
tough kid in the leather jacket.
Fights, vandalism.
You were really
a juvenile delinquent.
But that's all behind you.
Tell me, what do you do now?
I manufacture spray paint.
At least all that training
didn't go to waste.
♪ If not for the courage
Of that fearless crew ♪
♪ The minnow would be lost ♪
It's wonderful seeing you again.
I'd forgotten how charming,
how vivacious,
how... how lovely--
Two knights and a rabbi
walk into a bar,
and the first one said,
I... I was...
You were saying?
I'm going to be in town a while.
Could we meet Friday night?
I can't. The high school where I teach
has their prom.
I promised I'd chaperon.
Can you bring a date?
You can't be serious.
I'll buy you a corsage.
Make it orchids,
and make sure
you show up this time.
What do you mean?
You didn't show up
at our last prom.
Not that I care.
-What do you mean? I showed up.
-What?
Your mother sent me away.
She what?
She called me a bum
and slammed the door.
She what?
♪ The millionaire and his wife...♪
-Is something wrong?
-No, but on the way out,
I'd like to stop at the gift shop.
I'll be needing a spiked ball
on a chain.
Hi, Ma.
Hi, Dorothy. Bye, Dorothy.
Ma, come back.
I want to sit and have a little talk.
Why?
Come on, now.
Would it hurt to spend time
with your daughter?
That remains to be seen.
Rose, would you excuse us
just for a minute?
Sure. I know that tone of voice.
♪ Somebody's going to get it ♪
Ma, I'm going to ask you a question,
and however you answer,
I'll believe you.
Did you tell John Noretti to leave
the night of my senior prom
because you didn't like
the way he was dressed?
-Well...
-Liar!
You knew John showed up that night.
You didn't want me seeing him tonight,
because you knew he'd mention it.
I can explain. Just don't put me
in another ill-equipped nursing home.
I promise nothing.
It's true. I sent him away
because he was dressed like a hood.
I told him not to come back
until he was wearing
a jacket and a tie.
Why didn't you tell me?
When he didn't come back,
I was afraid if you
knew the truth,
you'd never forgive me.
It's over. What's the big deal?
Stanley Zbornak, Ma.
That's the big deal.
When John didn't show up,
I lost all my self-esteem.
When Stan asked me out I said yes,
because I didn't think
I'd do any better.
That's why I went to
that drive-in movie with Stan.
That's why I got pregnant
and why I got married.
You're saying I kept you
from marrying John Noretti.
I don't know. Maybe.
Or maybe I would have met
somebody else, somebody wonderful,
but I'll never know, because of you.
You took away my choices.
How can I forgive you for that?
(tranquil music playing)
Time for today's sensible meal.
Where's my tuna quiche?
You heard me.
I said, "Where's my tuna quiche?"
I get five ounces of solid food.
I want my tuna quiche.
You mean that little pie?
Little pie.
-Little pie?
-I wanted a snack.
A snack!
I thought it was a little fishy.
You ate my sensible meal!
Blanche, stop! Blanche!
You're out of control.
My God. Oh, Rose, honey, I'm sorry.
What did I just do?
This.
-Oh.
-Ah!
Honey, we know dieting is hard.
We've all been there.
I remember the time Stan and I
went on that weight loss
through sex diet.
The idea being,
every time you felt hungry,
you would substitute food
with some sexual activity.
-Did it work?
-I gained 18 pounds.
Well, fine. I won't have
my sensible meal.
Tomorrow's my anniversary anyway.
I'll just have my last shake tonight.
Where's my shake?
You heard me.
I said, "Where's my shake?"
I needed something
to wash down the little pie.
Aah!
It was so fishy.
I don't believe you.
Well, if it's any consolation,
I'm still hungry.
Oh, shut up.
Just shut up, you babbling,
bubble-headed,
bleached blonde...
-Baboon.
She needed a "B".
(doorbell ringing)
John. Oh. I'll go get Dorothy.
Won't you have a seat?
Mrs. Petrillo.
It's John Noretti.
Well, you haven't aged a bit.
I said you haven't aged a bit.
I hear you, I'm not deaf.
"Haven't staged a hit"?
Oh, John, I'm sorry I kept you waiting.
Dorothy.
You remember my lying,
vicious toad of a mother.
-Is there a problem?
-Oh, not at all.
Happy as ever at happiness house.
Aw. Well, I guess
we should be going.
-I want a picture.
-Oh, Rose.
Come on, Dorothy,
it's your prom picture.
Say cheese.
Cheese.
Now smile.
We'll save a lot of time
if you just do it.
(clicks)
Have a good time.
Thank you.
I never went to the St. Olaf
junior prom.
How come?
It was just for people named junior.
It fits.
My wedding dress fits.
Congratulations.
You weren't married in a white dress?
Rose, it's one thing
to hear snickering
when you walk down the aisle,
but me in white?
Even I couldn't keep
a straight face.
Okay, Rose, come on.
Take the picture.
(clicks)
I never thought you'd fit
into that thing.
The pain was worth it.
George would be proud of me.
My body's as lithe and taut
as the day we were wed.
Blanche!
Nothing.
(clicks)
It was an enchanting evening.
Enchanted evening.
The was the theme
of that prom we never got to.
More romantic than the theme
they had tonight.
Wear a condom
is more than a prom theme.
It's sort of become
the school slogan.
It's catchy.
I wish Stan had gone
to that high school.
I've got a little confession
to make.
I wanted to see you again
to show you how well I turned out.
I wanted to show you
the same thing.
I was a mess in high school.
We all were.
Except for Roseanne Dorasmo.
She had it all together.
I wonder whatever happened to her.
She turned into a bitter lonely lady
who came into a lot of money.
At least that's how she was
after our divorce.
I had a wonderful time tonight.
So did I.
I'm sorry I messed up in high school.
It wasn't your fault.
It was my mother's.
Actually I've always wanted to
thank her for that night.
Why?
For not letting me take you out.
She took one look at my clothes
and my attitude,
and she said her little girl
deserved better.
She actually said that?
Yeah, and a whole lot
of Italian words.
I'm not sure if it was a curse,
but I did talk like a girl
for three weeks.
It was a turning point in my life.
I finally started growing up.
All that happened
because of my mother?
I like to think so.
Another thing I remember
about that night
was how nervous I was.
Nervous about what?
Our good night kiss.
I was terrified.
I thought, she's not
going to want me--
It was worth waiting for.
Can I call you next time
I get back to town?
I'd like that.
Good night.
Don't take me, death.
Don't take me.
Oh, it's you.
Ma, are you okay?
Yeah, I'm fine.
Oh, Ma, I said some terrible things
to you,
and I'm sorry.
I'm responsible for the decisions
I made in my life,
and if my life didn't turn out
perfectly,
well, whose has?
Mary Ann Mobley comes to mind.
She gets to sleep with Gary Collins
every night.
I'm trying to say
we all make the best decisions
we can make
with what we know.
Exactly.
Just like on the night
of your prom.
I did what I thought best.
I was wrong, I'm sorry,
but you didn't come
with a book of instructions.
I only wanted the best
for my little girl.
You deserved it.
I didn't want you
to settle for less.
You still think of me
as your little girl?
Of course I do.
In fact... come on.
Sit on my lap
for old time's sake.
Come on, Ma.
You can't be serious.
I mean,
I'm a grown woman.
What's wrong with a mother
wanting to hold her child?
Dorothy, do this to me.
Sit on my lap.
Well, if you're sure, I...
Oh, Ma.
Oh, this brings back
so many memories.
The time I was 5.
Bad idea. Bad idea.
Ma, are you all right?
I'm fine.
I just panicked for a minute.
Come sit down here.
Oh, Ma, this is just
like old times.
So, tell me, did you
have a good time tonight
at your prom, pussycat?
Wonderful, Ma.
It was everything I wanted it to be.
Come. Tell ma all about it.
Well, John bought me this
beautiful corsage,
and then when we got
to the gymnasium,
it was so beautiful.
Anyway, when we got there, we walked in...
(soft music)
(theme music playing)